okay thanks very much everybody for
having me so first of all I just wanted
to say huge big congrats to the whole
ipfs protocol labs team for this pretty
significant milestone and thanks a lot
for bringing us along for the ride so
yeah just a big congrats to everybody
and then I'm gonna talk a little bit
about what textile has been doing in
anticipation of and on top of and with
ipfs and ipfs tooling and that sort of
thing so I can't see any messages or
anything so if and if you can't hear me
or something just yell at me instead so
hi I'm Carson farmer from textile we as
a team have been working with and on
ipfs for about about just over three
years now I think so that's reasonably
long I think in the scheme of things
community wise and we've seen a lot of
changes over that time documentation to
billing all that stuff
big improvements and we've also done a
lot of experimentation ourselves in
terms of figuring out in what
environments ipfs behaves nicely in what
environments that doesn't behave very
nicely and we've thought a lot about the
developer experience our own experience
and the experience of other developers
around this so that's kind of what I'm
going to talk about today is a little
bit of you know how textile ended on
some of the products and tools that
we've built on ipfs and then go into
some details about what they do and how
they work and why we built them
specifically so you may or may not be
familiar with some of our early
experiments that we did on top of IP FS
and the sort of D web space in
particular textile photos is something
that some people might be familiar with
and textile photos was essentially a
fantastic experiment into just what you
can what you can actually start building
on top of you know web to are sorry web
3 or peer-to-peer technology
and we learned a ton you know throughout
that experimentation we learned what
does work we learned what doesn't work
we learned and developed a bunch of
pretty strong opinions about you know
mobile environments web environments
desktop environments and what makes
sense from from actually building
products and so today I'm gonna talk to
you about essentially the outcome or the
learned tooling that we developed out of
that initial experiment so I'm going to
focus on essentially three legs of a
four leg chair that textile is currently
building and so we're going to focus on
essentially solving problems for real
developers on top of IP FS so I'm gonna
start with threads DB which is something
that our team has been working on for a
while and it's we've written a white
paper about this so you know it's it's
good science and there's a bunch of
different implementations and I'll talk
about a little bit about those and how
you can get involved and that sort of
thing but the the take-home point which
is here you've got a problem you want to
build an app and you probably you know
you want some sort of dynamic data so
that you know someone's uploading photos
or someone's chatting with friends or
someone's having some engaging
experience with other people or with
your product or with your service
there's some dynamic data involved so
you want that you probably want some
level of security and assurance that the
data is actually getting where it's
supposed to be going that your users can
maintain control of their own identity
in data and interactions you probably
wanted to be reasonably scalable there's
nothing worse than a sort of experience
that falls apart as soon as you start to
add new users to a chat thread or
something like that and for the crowd
here you probably want all this to work
on top of IP FS you want it to work in a
peer-to-peer way you want
essentially a very solid web to
experience but you want all of the
ideals and benefits of web 3 and so we
spend a lot of time figuring out exactly
how that might work and what that looks
like in a lot of our early development
and when we sort of went back to the
drawing board and really started to
figure out what exactly this needs to
look like we wrote this white paper and
we came up with something we call
threads DB so threads DB is a here's the
tag line here a secure decentralized
peer-to-peer database and it's built on
ipfs Lib PDP and IP LD and the idea is
here is basically if I'm a developer or
if I'm a development team and I want to
build an engaging experience for my
users I don't want my users or my
developers to have to learn a whole
brand new language in a whole way of
thinking to get on board and get started
so we've developed a essentially a
MongoDB like interface where it feels
like a local database but operates like
a dist decentralized or distributed
database you've got you know very
modular access control you've got
implementation agnostic identity
conflict resolution CR DTS all the
things that you need in a decentralized
database but over top of an API that
feels like you know you're just adding a
document or modifying a document and
then for our team a really important
thing is ensuring that users have
control of their own data and that's
actually a huge part of what brought us
into the ipfs community in the first
place is this idea of content addressing
providing a way for people to really
control where and how they address and
access their data and in order to do
that in a nice safe way we've built
encryption into the actual protocol
level layer of threads DB that provides
ways to manage access control but also
to then fill silicate services on top of
that so you can have trustless third
party pinning service
or relays or archiving so that your
users know that their data is gonna
stick around but they don't need to
worry that someone else is snooping on
what they're creating so here's an
example of actual code that you would
write using threads DB and you know
initialize a new database you specify a
schema using well-known jason schema.org
for your database you create collections
you insert values or astronauts in this
case you can query it using MongoDB
query syntax and you get all the nice
sort of modern web style interactions so
you get an async iterable that you can
go through and and all these nice things
and then every time you add something to
debate database it in the background
syncs across all of its different peers
using a bunch of the really cool
technology that we've already heard
about on the call here and there's a
bunch of really nice things that happen
in the background here in particular
it's designed to be offline first so
essentially you've got a database that
not only feels local but actually
operates local when it doesn't have a
network connection so that as soon as
you come back online you can start to
tell everybody hey I've got some data
you might want to pull it so I'm not
going to dwell on this too much because
there's some really exciting new things
that I want to talk about in the next
couple slides but check out the white
paper check out our go implementation
check out our JavaScript implementation
and come build some stuff on top of
threads DB but what about if you have a
bunch of like really large files or
directories that you want to manage our
IP FS
so IP FS is already really quite good at
this you know ipfs ad you get some data
it's chunks it up into a beautiful
merkel tag for you you can share that
you can pass around just the top-level
hash that's fantastic but again if you
want to work with dynamic data or you're
collaborating on a single folder in a
Dropbox like way or you've got a team
that were you're trying to manage team
assets you want something that's sort of
persistent is dynamic and feels again
and I
you're working on a local folder and so
that's something that we a product that
we've developed called buckets and
buckets is just a really nice slick
wrapper on top of the ipfs mutable file
system well what it's designed for is
essentially representing dynamic folders
on top of threads and on top of IP FS
it's got a API that's not unlike say
like an s3 bucket or something like that
it's designed for collaborative
multi-user folders that you can persist
on remote IP FS peers so it works really
nicely with pinning services in fact the
api's are designed to be adopted fairly
easily by pinning services or our own
pinning service
but the really really cool thing about
buckets and and will probably don't have
time to do a demo today but this is kind
of this has blown my mind so here we go
hopefully you guys think it's pretty
cool so a buckets are designed to be
highly interoperable every bucket is
essentially a folder ok and when you add
data to that folder it's actually an
instance inside of a thread DB running
locally so it's essentially like a
document in a database and you can query
it and you can treat it effectively like
a document ok except that this is like
binary file based data or a whole folder
of binary file based data it's also its
own HTTP domain or gateway and it
actually takes we take a pretty cool
advantage of some of the new sub domain
properties of ipfs 0.5 to do some of
this stuff so essentially you know your
folder is your you know static website
well actually you can just address that
as if it's a website online it'll be
rendered like a website and yeah it's
gonna get all the benefits of that
except that it's a dynamic folder as
well it there's a phone in the
background Paula jeez so you essentially
can deploy your blog as a static static
site that gets dynamic updates but
here's a really cool thing every bucket
is
also itself an IP and s address so the
unique bucket ID is also an IP and s ID
so every time you update your bucket you
also in the background update an IP and
s address and therefore you can do all
sorts of like DNS link type linking back
to your bucket so that every time you
update your bucket you automatically get
you know your URL whatever will will
automatically point to the latest IP NS
hash or - you're sorry you're persistent
IP NS hash so you have literally a
dynamic folder in ipfs with all the
benefits of ipfs and that gets updated
automatically in the background but the
big piece there is like with with
peer-to-peer systems there's lots of
different ways that you can address
something and our big philosophy on our
team is that you need to have different
ways of addressing the same thing so so
that if one of those things doesn't work
you've always got a backup so with
buckets you have IP NS you have actually
all of the updates are also published
over pub/sub you have direct gateway
access you'll still have the IP FS
protocol because of course if it's an IP
NS address it's also an IP FS address so
you've got all these different ways of
accessing content so no matter what if
you're a developer and your users want
to be able to access you know their data
or your deployed service you they always
can depending on what sort of connection
they're able to manage this means that
you can deploy a lot lighter weight apps
because you don't need a full-blown ipfs
peer necessarily to access your website
or your data so we're actually I guess
kind of launching this softly right now
as I'm speaking out loud so definitely
check it out we just updated a bunch of
Doc's for this we've got some blog posts
that are becoming out so check that
stuff out and then I can also talk about
something very exciting do I still have
a little bit of time Molly just say yes
or no
awesome okay cool so the other really
exciting thing
that we're also launching as I'm
speaking is something that our team is
calling the hub textile hub basically
this is a infrastructure and tooling and
persistence layer for a lot of the
threads DB and buckets tooling that
textile is deploying as a cloud service
so developers can access all this really
cool stuff and right now you can access
this really cool stuff for free and you
can do things like persist your buckets
and you can persist thread data and the
really really cool thing and the piece
that all of this design is built around
is the idea that you could you as a
developer can persist and store data on
behalf of the user
but so that that user has full control
of all of that data and information and
in fact you can design it such that the
user holds all of all of the keys to
access the raw data and you the
developer don't necessarily need to or
you can depending on what that how that
relationship needs to be set up so
essentially you have a remote IP FS and
threads DB peers that can change the way
you build your apps they make it so that
you don't need to worry about spinning
up your own infrastructure and they set
it up so that it's very easy to pin and
ensure that data and content for your
users sticks around it's you know we
basically designed this whole thing with
the developer experience kind of as the
first thing and then okay how do we we
actually make that happen in the
background so there's a lot of
experimentation a lot of testing out
with partners including working with
folks like fleek and of course the team
any type team has been building stuff
with threads and now the new threads DB
for a while now so a lot of what we do
is just facilitating developer
experience and that kind of boils down
to textiles kind of opinion about how
all this stuff needs to work if we want
a mass adoption of of ipfs and of web 3
technologies we need really great
experiences to be for users to come to
and until we get a lot of developers
building those experiences we're not
going to see that mass adoption so we're
tool builders
and we hope that you know application
developers build on top of our tools and
then people build on top of that and
everybody wins
so do ask me about the hub stuff and
what we can do there the last little
piece I want to say about that and this
is something that we're really excited
about as well is we're talking about
user control of data but potentially
paid for with file coin so the hub is
designed to work with the product we've
been working on called power gate which
basically lets you backup and store
buckets and threads on file coin and
that will be available essentially at
the launch of maintenance and even
before on test net so that users can our
developers can essentially develop
applications that work now on ipfs that
will pretty much seamlessly and with a
fairly low barrier to entry allow them
to start playing around with file coin
so if you're at all curious about how
might I be able to take advantage of
file coin in my application how can I
make sure that my users data is
persisted how can i allocate storage
space on behalf of my users as I test
this out and I don't want to charge them
all that sort of stuff you should be
able to experiment with really easily so
that we get more developers adopting
some of these new ideas and so that's
the whole idea of the hub and we'll be
adding these features for integrating
the file coin right away as soon as that
stuff is available so definitely come
check out our github and you can see the
the progress that's happening there and
I can if I have time just a little demo
of how buckets work so that you can get
an idea of what it's the sort of user or
developer experience looks like there so
this would be like a developer creating
a new bucket for a particular demo and
you know maybe they've got a whole
static site that they want to deploy or
even just a little index to tell you to
know that they want to pop up and this
is just you know like you would expect
on ipfs except every time you update
this it's going to push and then
automatically update all the underlying
IPN
and pub/sub and all that good stuff in
the background so that users can access
their webpage and then if you use our
gateways we do a bunch of magic
rendering so that websites look really
nice and automatically do local or sorry
relative links and all that stuff very
easily but of course everything is also
ipfs so you've get all the benefits of
the whole ipfs infrastructure as well so
I think that's pretty close to my time
thanks a lot for listening and yeah have
a good rest of the day this is all very
exciting again thanks a lot to the ipfs
team for bringing us along and huge
congrats to the release